			   What's new for 1.5b:

+ New icons and splash screen, courtesy of Walter |2| Costinak 
  (2@2design.org). These are great! 

+ One vertex will snap to grid when you use the arrows to shift it, if it
  was not already on the grid.
+ The Alt+P map checker now detects solid entities with no solids attached
  to them. This happens rarely, but it's a pain to fix.
+ There's now an option to replace textures on hidden brushes.
+ There's now an option in the 2D Views tab to draw objects with the color
  of the group they belong to in the 2D views.
+ You can now combine multiple solid entities into a single entity with the
  toEntity command. You couldn't, before.
+ Copy/Paste entity properties buttons were added in the Object Properties
  dialog box. Select an entity, hit COPY, and all its attributes are saved.
  Select another entity, hit PASTE, and those attributes are copied over.
  Pretty cool.
+ When you move stuff in the 2D views, the original object remains in place
  once more.
+ Added arrows for texture scaling in the Texture Application Bar.

* Ctrl+A stopped working to center the four views. Fixed.
* Undoing texturing with the APPLY button in Texture Application mode didn't
  work. Fixed.
* Undo didn't update the 3D preview properly (this bug was only in the
  last release.) Fixed.
* The clip plane now uses the texture on existing faces of the brush
  you're clipping when it adds a face to a brush. It used to add whatever
  texture you currently had selected, which was a pain if that texture was
  water or slime or whatever.
* The clip plane didn't work on grouped objects/solid entities. Fixed.
* Sometimes visgroups would be created with a very very dark color. Fixed.
* Snap to grid indicator was flipped sometimes. Fixed.
* "Goto" in the entity report no longer closes the report window.
* Moving brushes with the arrow keys wasn't recorded in Undo. Fixed.
* Adding an object to the prefab library crashed Worldcraft. Fixed.

			What's new for 1.5a:

+ added a purge button to the filter control that deletes all 
  unused VisGroups.
* "Clear Selection" was incorrectly being put into the undo 
  stack in most cases. fixed.
* Changed face painting behavior: if you select a tool besides 
  Select, Magnify, or Camera while you're in face painting mode, 
  FP mode will be deactivated.
* Map Checker was far too strict about finding points off a 
  plane. Fixed.
* Inserting a prefab while objects were selected screwed up 
  the 2d display. Fixed.
* file save actually goes to the map directory now. 
* deleting all cameras then using pgup/pgdn crashed. fixed.
* selecting object(s), editing their properties, then deselecting
  all objects by clicking on blank space in 2d views did not 
  save the changes you made. fixed.
* copy/pasting an object required you to reselect that object 
  to edit its properties. fixed.
* fixed some face splitting problems.

			 What's new for 1.5!

Vertex Manipulation:
	Vertex manipulation allows you to move each point on a solid
	independently of the other points. You can even modify multiple 
	points on multiple solids at the same time!

	To use vertex manipulation, select the vertex tool from the 
	toolbar. Before you can modify a solid's points, you have to
	select the solid into morph mode by clicking on it in the 2D
	(center handle only) or 3D views. You can select multiple
	objects by holding down CTRL before you select it.

	To select a vertex and move it, click the left mouse button
	over it. To select multiple vertices, hold down CTRL and click.
	You can use a selection box as well - just drag out a box, size
	it to the vertices you want to select, and press ENTER.

	Display Mode:
	You can select to display only edge handles, only vertex 
	handles, or both kinds of handle by pressing Shift+V or clicking
	on the vertex tool icon repeatedly.

	Face Splitting (Registered Only):
	You can split a face into two by selecting just TWO edges
	or two vertices and pressing Ctrl+F. You can't select an
	edge and a vertex to split.

Clip plane:
	The clipping plane allows you to cut an object (or objects)
	along a 2D plane.

	To use it, select the objects you want to clip. Then press 
	Shift+X or select the clip tool from the toolbar. Left-click
	in the 2D view you want to use to clip and drag out the 
	line you want to cut with. Release the left button. 
	
	A preview of the "clipped result" is drawn with thick lines
	in the 2D views.

	You can move the line around by holding CTRL and dragging it.
	This moves both points instead of just one. Hold down SHIFT
	and click-drag to start over in a new view.
	
	Clip Mode:
	You can change the clip mode by pressing Shift+X or clicking 
	on the clip tool repeatedly. There are three modes: 
	Clip Left, Clip Right, and Split. The first two modes just toggle
	which side of the original object is kept - left or right - and
	the third mode splits the original object into two objects.

	Remember that you can clip multiple objects at once - just 
	select multiple objects before you go into clip mode.

Texture locking:
	When texture lock mode is ON, moving solids around keeps their
	texture alignment intact. Rotating objects doesn't keep their
	alignment - yet.

	To toggle texture lock, press Shift+L or select "Texture Lock"
	from the TOOLS menu.

Redone Visgroups:
	Visgroups are now actually usable. They work very differently
	from before - the "Hide Objects" button on the toolbar creates
	a new visgroup, puts the selected objects in that visgroup,
	and hides it. The group is named "N objects", where N is the
	number of objects that were hidden. Conversely, "Hide Unselected
	Objects" puts all the objects that are not selected into a 
	new visgroup and hides it.

	Objects can now only be part of ONE visgroup. This new method 
	takes a little bit of getting used to - it makes Visgroups a 
	temporary method of organizing hidden objects instead of a
	long-term strategy since the groups are so frequently broken 
	up and destroyed.

	To toggle the display of an existing visgroup, click just to
	the left of its name in the filter control. The hand icon will
	appear or disappear to show if the group is visible or not. You
	must click APPLY for the changes to take effect. The "Show All 
	Groups" button displays all the Visgroups.

	The new Filter Control allows you to do several group operations
	with the mouse:
	
	- you can combine a group with another group by click-dragging 
	  it over the destination;
	- you can delete a group by dragging it out of the listbox
	- you can rename a group by selecting it and then clicking it
	  again in the listbox.

Texture browser features:
	The texture browser has some new features. The name filter 
	allows you to specify multiple search phrases, separated
	by spaces. For example, "floor 1" will display all the textures
	that have the words "floor" and "1" in them.

	The filter list is now saved in a pull-down box, so you can
	quickly recall previous filters.

	The MARK button marks all the solids that use the currently
	selected texture.

	The REPLACE button brings up the texture replace dialog and 
	fills in the "Search" field with the currently selected
	texture.

Select by handles:
	The 2D and 3D Wireframe views now display an X in the middle
	of every object to ease selection. This is especially useful
	in 3D Wireframe mode, where it was difficult before to tell
	which object was going to be selected (since you can see
	through them all!)

	You can toggle 2D selection ONLY by center handles by clicking
	"Select By Handles" on the toolbar (this option is also
	available in the Tools|Options|2D Views dialog.)

Multiple cameras:
	You can now create multiple persistent cameras. Hold down Shift
	and left-click-drag to create a new camera in a 2D view. If there
	are objects selected, the camera will be placed on the center of
	the objects in the third axis (the "depth" axis of the 2D view you
	create the camera in.)

	More changes:
	- the active camera (drawn with a red line) moves in 2D when the 3D 
	  position changes.
	- press DEL to delete the active camera.
	- press PGUP and PGDN to cycle through the existing cameras.

New Map Check features:
	Map Check will now check for several more errors. In addition,
	there's a "FIX ALL" button that fixes all the errors of the 
	currently-highlighted kind. The new checks are:

	- unrecognised texture - a texture on a face that's not found in
	  any of the currently loaded WAD files. FIXing this error replaces
	  the texture with the currently selected texture.
	- invalid brush - a brush that's been mangled by vertex manipulation
	  or other strange phenomena. FIXing this error causes Worldcraft 
	  to closely approximate the invalid shape with a valid one. The
	  results might not be desirable all the time.

Other Small Features:
	
	Transformation previews in 2D:
	When you select a bunch of objects and rotate/scale/shear/move them,
	a preview is shown in the 2D views instead of just a simple box. 
	This makes it easier to line things up when you're transforming a 
	bunch of stuff.

	Transform dialog:
	Press Ctrl+M or select Tools|Transform to bring up a transformation
	dialog, where you can transform the selected objects precisely by
	entering a rotation, scale, or movement value.

	Auto select:
	This is a toggleable state. When it's ON, dragging a selection box
	in a 2D view automatically selects everything in the box when the
	left button is released, so you don't have to resize it in the other
	2D views to get what you want.

	Move 2d views with 3D camera:
	This is an option in Tools|Options|2D Viewsa

	New texture application features:
	In texture application mode, there are some new features. The HIDE 
	MASK button removes the red highlight of selected faces temporarily,
	so you can see what you're aligning better. The Right Mouse Button
	always APPLIES the currently selected texture to the face you click
	on, and SHIFT+RMB applies the texture to the entire brush.
	
Tiny features:
- 'D' and 'C' now zoom in the 2d views
- Ctrl+E behavior:
	- centers on selection
	- centers on map (if no selection)
	- centers on selected vertices (if in vertex mode)

Important Bug Fixes:
- fixed the 1-off scaling problem
- fixed texture browser ugliness in NT
- pasting objects snaps to grid
- fixed the 45 degree texturing problem
- toolbar doesn't flash anymore
- copying a command sequence in the expert
  run map feature used to crash.
- lines are much crisper in the 2D views - no jaggies on
  45 degree lines, for example.
- shearing objects now snaps to grid.
