TEST CHAMBER SEQUENCE:

Gordon enters test chamber. The doors slide shut.

Shortly after:

SCIENTIST 1: Testing, testing... *clears throat* everything seems to be in order.
SCIENTIST 2: Aah, excellent, Everything appears to be on schedule and the experiment will be starting shortly. I will leave the loudspeaker on so you can hear what's happening upstairs.

The device is switched on. The device begins whirring fairly loudly.

SCIENTIST 2: Very good. We'll take it from here.
SCIENTIST 1: Power to stage 1 emitters in 3..2..1.

The emitters from the 4 "claws" of the Device each begin emitting purple beams.

SCIENTIST 1: I am seeing predictable phase arrays.
SCIENTIST 2 (to SCIENTIST 1): Tell him to stand back from the focal stage! That suit won't do him any good if he wanders into the beam.
SCIENTIST 1: Stage 2 emitters activating - now.

Another purple beam begins to be emitted from above, projected from 4 beam emitters in the walls of the hole showing the sky.

SCIENTIST 1: *sneezes*
SCIENTIST 1: Overhead capacitors to 105 percent. *pause* Aah, it's probably not a problem, probably. But I'm showing a small discrepancy in... well, no, it's well within acceptable bounds again. Sustaining sequence.
SCIENTIST 2: We're almost there, Gordon. Get yourself into position!

A particle vortex appears in the middle of the portal device sucking particles inwards to create the portal to another area of Black Mesa in order to test the device. A portal is created, the destination where it leads to being unknown.

SCIENTIST 2: It's ready. You must go, now! (use c3a2 dialog for this for now)
SCIENTIST 2 (if Gordon doesn't walk into the portal): Nothing you need to worry about, Gordon. (nervous chuckle) Go ahead.

Gordon walks into the portal and gets teleported to Xen. (The map used for Xen is the same as in the retail test chamber map) Unable to move, Gordon gets surrounded by a squad of Vortigaunts, who investigate Gordon. After 10 seconds, Gordon gets teleported back to the test chamber.

Gordon returns to the test chamber, landing near the device. Shortly after, a scientist can be heard saying:

SCIENTIST 1: Get him out of there! Shut down the equipment and someone get him out!
SCIENTIST 2: Shutting down... *explosion in test chamber* attempting shutdown-it's not- it's not shutting down.. it's not-
Screams can be heard from above. More explosions as the Device malfunctions. The alarms begin sounding as the red alert lights turn on. A portal begins to open again, but as soon as it tries to open, the test chamber begins shaking as alien grunts begin teleporting inside the test chamber.

As the dimensional rips intensify, another portal starts to open, but just before it opens, Gordon is knocked unconscious. Breathing can be heard before the map changes to A1A1.