a2a2 (retail c2a2g/h)- starts from where a2a1 ends with Gordon driving through the tunnel in the train he had to get working in a2a1. A lift at the end of the tunnel takes him to the surface-level complex (c2a2g in retail, see also the E3 gruntfight video) where he battles HECU soldiers. He then enters the silo launch complex, where he kills the HECU soldiers there. Two scientists, who are hiding in a adiacent room with 2 elevators, open the doors to said room and tell Gordon that the rocket launch process got interrupted by the HECU soldiers entering the complex and that he has to close the two silo doors in order for the rocket to be able to be launched. Gordon takes the elevator to the right, leading to a2a2a. (c2a2b2 in retail) 

a2a2a (retail c2a2b2) - Exiting the elevator, he battles Bullsquids, Headcrabs and Houndeyes before arriving in a hallway with a doorway leading to the bottom of the silo. At the bottom of the silo is a human grunt who is fighting headcrabs coming from the sides of the silo walls, eventually being overwhelmed by them. Gordon has to take the train to reach the 2 silo doors to close them.

a2a2b (retail c2a2a) - Gordon finds that a pathway leading to another section of the decomissioned rail system is blocked by a crane that is in the way. To access the switch for the crane, he has to take an alternate path on the train that takes him to a area that leads to the observation area with the crane switch. From there, he progresses to a2a2c.

a2a2c (retail c2a2b1) - Gordon progresses onto another lift which takes him up to another tunnel. At the same time, an elevator with a HECU grunt on it activates as well, forcing Gordon to kill him. The map is basically a combination of c2a2b1 and c2a2c, but the map ends with another lift taking him to another tunnel, which in retail is in the end of c2a2e. It is unknown where that tunnel leads to. (see puu.sh/qm8xR/137328f4d2.png ) 
(In the retail game it leads to the tunnel with the overhead moving crates shown in the E3 1998 train video, but I'm not so sure about the beta having that area there as the visgroup for the retail c2a2e lift+tunnel is present in the c2a2c leaked .vmf, but it is named "c2a2i", a map that doesn't exist in retail, but what is alphabetically after c2a2h, a map that does exist in retail)