//ALL OF THIS TEXT HAS BEEN DONE BY AN ARGENTINIAN THAT DOESN'T HAVE A CLUE ABOUT HOW THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE WORKS THUS DONT TAKE THIS 100% SERIOUSLY

a3a1

This part is going to have a mix of both alpha's (and beta's) mapstyle, with the storage areas from retail for ammo ressuply so in case that the player is low on health/ammo he can wander around and get some, the tunnel entrance on the other corridor is going to get moved to the elevator. You can see both the elevator and the emergency entrance to a3a2, locked by now.

The entrance to datacore is going to be pretty much like on the alpha;

The elevator is going to have it's doors shifted/broken indicating that they don't work, and can be breakable.

a3a1a

From there you will meet the sewers part from retail (also used on the beta) with the ickys and grunts, the player should wander around the pools avoiding the ickys/archers and get to the ladder room guarded by the grunt. Instead of leading to ground zero it leads to

a3a1b

you get to some sort of storage area that turns out it was used to supply the helipad station, since the beta had two halls instead of one like the alpha, the player comes out from where the screenshot is pointing at, the unseen side should be where the radio/monitoring station should be.

//Maybe the player had to wander back to this and escape after doing whatever he had to do at c3a2?, the .doc file says "For now, keep going."

we could make the extra room on top of the helipad some sort of delivery room, where said place haves some goodies for the player (antidotes, nuclear ammo, let's say "stuff worth being delivered on a chopper") After activating the lifting progress, a countdown from 5 to 0 should begin so the player feels the need to rush the lift. Obviously making the platform to move upwards will open the shutter to the surface, so aerial creatures are going to swarm the place (stukabats, controllers)

//On the alpha the player was supposed to turn the chopper's rotor on so the stukabats get killed by the blades, according to walkthru.doc

a3a1c

The datacore-like central complex, most of the door that lead to the "lobby" are either locked down or electrified, so the player haves a hint that area is under lockdown.
The place is infested with low-tier enemies, such as headcrabs, zombies and vortigaunts, the doors leading to the computer room (with the scientist in) should be guarded by alien grunts trying to get into it (smashing the doors, etc) once you beat the aliens and get into said place, a scientist will brief you into the situation (wants to make a distress call, but the sat area is under lockdown) the place should be full of batteries and ammo to restock the player.

To get to said room, the player haves to either;

a) destroy the computers that manages the power supply, forcing the system to use the emergency power supply, thus lifting the lockdown

b) sneak into the room by using the vent system (inspired by the vents on the MP map)

By doing A the player will have to wander on the complex wasting ammo, killing badies and maybe getting hurt on the process, but that means the player will get to the sat dish with no more obstacles

By doing B the player will not face any harms, but it will require exploration, trial and error of the various vents on the building, and will get into the room still under lockdown, with the sentries powered on and the security guard ready to blast anyone that gets closer

Doesn't matter the path the player takes, it will make the player get into a elevator placed behind the receipt.

a3a1d

The satdish, after the elevator opens it's doors, you will face the radiation hall but backwards.
This means the player will start from where the warehouse/tank room is, and will go to where the elevator was located on retail, said hall will lead straight to the sat dish guarded by alien grunts and controllers.

Once you kill them you will hear the head scientist briefing you about the coordinates you will have to set the satellite to make the distress call. As soon you do said task, the whole complex is going to get overrun by HECU soldiers, forcing you to slowly go back to a3a1 (you can optionally go back to the scientist room, where it will be filled with grunts and the corpse of said scientist) where the emergency lift to a3a2 is now open and ready to be used.