post-disaster follow:
"Yes, ok. Let's go!"
"


post-disaster random lines:

"I predicted this, you know. All of it!"
"Who is responsible for this mess?"
"I knew this might happen, but the Administrator just would not listen!"
"I hear something." (use E3 1998 videos for reference)
"Well, it does seem there is something to chaos theory after all, yes?" (use E3 1998 videos for reference)

c1a0:

computer room
"Good Morning, Dr. Freeman!"
"It is a big day today, Freeman."
"Good morning! They are waiting for you in the control room." (source: Half-Life Decay)

control room
"Oh, Gordon, it's you! We're just getting the Device ready!"
"

before test chamber
"Watch out, it's about to go critical!"
"What the hell is going on with our equipment?"
"It wasn't meant to do this in the first place!"

c1a2:


break room
"Oh, it's you, Gordon! If I knew it was you, I would have let you in. Anyway, everybody is heading for the surface, but I think they are crazy not to stay put. Someone is bound to get us out of here!"

c1a2a
"If I were a braver man, I would run for the surface. But I'm afraid if the world finds out what we were doing here, Gordon. But please, just don't make me come with you."

c1a2c
"If you can make it up the elevator shaft, y- you should be able to get to the surface. Call for help, and let the world know-*dying noise*" (dying)

c1a3
"For God's sake, open that silo door now! They are coming for us! It is the only way out of here!" "Oh my God, we are doomed!"

"Please, don't kill me! I am from the Science Team!"
"Take me with you! I can tell you everything I know!"

c1a4
"Have you heard? The soldiers sent here, they are killing scientists! It is our own race, turning against us! I think I will just stay here and take my chances with the creatures." (scared)
"I hope no-one will make me start up the generator! My colleague Smithers went to do just that, but he never came back!"
Smithers: "This is my hiding spot, and I won't go away until the situation has drastically improved! Now, go away, and do NOT tell ANYONE that I am here!"
"Excellent! Looks like someone has restored the power and the engine will be up and running again in no time!"

c2a1

(Barney)

"Sorry sir, they say they'd let me alive if I stay quiet and help with the papers, you are Freeman right? if you want to go further you will have to make your way
into the Generator Control room, it's plagued with these soldiers so be careful, I'll stay there and make sure nothing gets in or out of this area"

"I can hear the fans spinning, that was you right? Damn! now you need to go to where the railway system starts, the trains should work now. 
I'll stay here, I'm sure they will never step this place back again after what you did, Good luck!

c2a2
"Oh, it's Freeman! I can get the rocket control door for you."


