dm_hydro - Based off of the dam in A2A5. Pretty much the same map as the dam map in A2A5, but there would be no water on the other side from where Gordon progresses further in the singleplayer chapter. It would be a good idea too to create some sort of storage facility that would be located beyond the red "SURFACE ACCESS" door that is locked in the retail map. 

(2019 comment - likely wouldn't work due to small, limited size, with most of the map size going to the cliffs. However, this could still be a possibility, IF we shrink the area outside the dam enough to give the map a reasonable amount of gameplay area.)

dm_silod - Based off of the silo in A1A4 where the player has to fight the Tentacles, except (obviously) without the tentacles. Maybe it would be cool to be able to fire the rocket engine every 5-7 minutes, similarly to the ability call an airstrike in Crossfire? If possible, also feature the areas which Gordon visits just before entering the silo in the Blast Pit chapter (Refer to the map a1a4b)

(2019 comment - could work as an AZ equivalent of crossfire. I like my past idea of using the rocket engine for the same goal as the airstrikes in crossfire. Fitting in the exterior could work, but that area must have some sort of purpose.)

dm_anomaterials - Based off of the post-disaster Sector C maps (a1a1-a1a1b for reference), but with the access to Sector D blocked off in some way. (We could either make the doors closed or block the airlock off with some rubble) This idea was inspired by the Facility multiplayer map in GoldenEye 64. The post-disaster environment could, IMO, offer for some good hiding places, maybe even hidden areas where players could find the more powerful weapons.

(2019 comment - another good idea still IMO. Unlike Slartibarty's take on this map in 2016, the seal-off from a1a1 does not need to be dramatic imo. Adding the test chamber might work, but I think having some more original areas wouldn't hurt the map.)

dm_building3 (current WIP) - Based off of the HL1 beta testmaps of what looks like an early version of Surface Tension.

(2019 comment - very unlikely that this actually gets made, since this would be based off a beta test map never meant for polished gameplay)

dm_midbridge (current WIP) - Based off of the big hub area in A1A1, but much different (there being 4 pathways now leading from the concrete platform). I think a canal area could work well here.

(2019 comment - take a look at Alan's take on this map and go from there if it's good enough)

dm_xlab (credit goes to Theuaredead for the idea) - Based off of the xlab areas in the Half-Life alpha. Would be lovely to include that one area from the maindemo map in the alpha (which I have put in it's own map a while back), as well as other similarly themed areas we can find from early screenshots. (The canal bit from maindemo could also work well here.) We could make some of our own areas using the xlab (prefixes lab1_ and lab2_) textures in this map.

dm_offices - Despite being similarly named to the DM map found in the Dreamcast build of Half-Life, I see our map to be much different from that one. I would like it to be based off of the singleplayer map a1a2c, but without the corridors leading to the elevator shaft (which I lifted from the alpha) (Or maybe keep the basic paths of the alpha corridors but add stuff to make it more interesting as a battle area?) and also much more vast with several new areas to explore. Would be nice to implement a cafeteria area aswell (we could make good use of my (Zed) remake of the boxart cafeteria area). I would like to have a couple of power fusebox rooms similar to the one found in the retail c1a2 which players can use to play with the lights in the hallways.

(2019 comment - already being built in a different form from here)

dm_

dm_militarycamp - the concept art could make a nice MP map

CAPTURE THE FLAG

ctf_landfield - Based off of the landing field area in C2A5 (Specifically the area which the TFC Hunted map is based off). A good capture point for one of the teams could be the tunnel leading from the doors inbetween the two watchtowers (where the rescue SUV is in the Hunted map)

ctf_cencom - Based off of the Communications Center in A3A1. Will write more as we develop A3A1. Partially inspired by the Opposing Force CTF map based off of the Biodome Complex.

ctf_canalzone - Based off of the canal portion of C1A1. The center of the map should be the "midbridge" area. More to be added later.

NEW STUFF:

ctf_seccom - Based off of the cut iteration of C1A3 (Security Complex). Maybe take some inspiration from the Skulltag map "MacKinley Heritage"?

